=> ../index.gmi gemified.space Home
=> ./index.gmi My Gemlog

# Oddities in Hosting a Capsule

Something that's been bugging me a little about running this capsule on a 
Raspberry Pi Zero 2 W: It's slower than I would think. I mean, Gemini is a pretty simple
protocol with a minimal spec for its primary content, gemtext, and this capsule doesn't
have a ton to it, so why would it be slow?

The RPi Zero 2 on paper has enough compute and memory to run a simple server well enough,
I mean, I use a RPi Zero 2 in order to run MainsailOS with a full-on web ui for
Mainsail and Klipper in order to drive my 3D printer, so a simple Gemini Capsule should be
mostly trivial, right? Well... maybe not.

Thinking I was slightly clever, I figured I'd page Agate into a container and that would save
me from having to install the rust toolchain and dependencies in order to build from source.
I would instead just install Podman, git, and copy over some certificates; clone my
capsule repo to the RPi Zero 2, and run the container. It turns out, the RPi Zero 2 doesn't 
"Like" to run containers, especially large ones. It takes 5 whole minutes to start the
container, and then when it is started, the performance is... abysmal. I'm met with
I/O Timeouts, which is really interesting given how lightweight my content and the Gemini protocol
are.

What surprised me even more was that even when using the Agate pre-compiled binary from the
upstream GitHub repository, the performance is better, but still prone to I/O Timeouts when
navigating to my capsule from another machine. I think the hint may very well be in the error
message: "I/O Timeout". The Amfora client I use has a timeout of 10 seconds set. I know for a
fact that the network speed going from my home network out to Cloudflare and then back to my
home network and into my RPi Zero 2 W is plenty fast. So something else must be going on.

When I check the actual resource consumption on the Pi, it's as expected - Almost non-existent.
So... what gives? I think the problem is possibly slow file access. Perhaps the cheap 32GB micro
SDCard I'm using is just not very fast? I still think that's a bit of a reach, but in the
absence of anything obvious, that may be a place to start. Thankfully, I have several
micro SDCards, so ought to be able to verify my hypothesis pretty easily.

It's a frustrating problem, but is hopefully easily rectified with a little experimentation.


Tailwinds and 72
- Brian
